# Road Density Metrics

Intermediate Files Retained

* **rdm\_\[Reporting unit feature\]\* vector** - A polygon feature class containing reporting units with a new area field in km². The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_" followed by a the name of the Reporting unit feature, then followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_WI\_Counties0, rdm\_HUC120, rdm\_HUC121, etc.). The number is appended when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_\[Road feature\]\* vector** - A line feature class containing road features. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_" followed by a the name of the Road feature, then followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_WI\_Roads0, rdm\_Interstates0, rdm\_Interstates1, etc.). The number is appended when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location. This intermediate vector is only generated if the geometry coordinates for the input Road feature include M or Z values. These values are stripped off in the intermediate file.
* **rdm\_RdsByRU\* vector** - A line feature class with Road features intersected with reporting units. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_RdsByRU" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_RdsByRU0, rdm\_RdsByRU1, rdm\_RdsByRU2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_\[Stream feature\]\* vector** - A line feature class containing stream features. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_" followed by a the name of the Stream feature, then followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_WI\_Streams0, rdm\_HUC12streams0, rdm\_HUC12streams1, etc.). The number is appended when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.&nbsp; This intermediate vector is only generated if the geometry coordinates for the input Stream feature include M or Z values. These values are stripped off in the intermediate file.
* **rdm\_StrByRU\* vector** - A line feature class with Stream features intersected with reporting units. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_StrByRU" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_StrByRU0, rdm\_StrByRU1, rdm\_StrByRU2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_PtsOfXing\* vector** - A point feature class depicting locations where Road feature lines intersect Stream feature lines. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_PtsOfXing" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_PtsOfXing0, rdm\_PtsOfXing1, rdm\_PtsOfXing2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_RdsXStrMP\* vector** - A multipoint feature class in which all stream-road crossing points from the PtsOfXing feature class are assembled by reporting unit. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_RdsXStrMP" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_RdsXStrMP0, rdm\_RdsXStrMP1, rdm\_RdsXStrMP2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_RdsXStrTbl\* table** - A table of stream lengths and stream-road crossing density within each reporting unit. The name of the intermediate table has the prefix "rdm\_RdsXStrTbl" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_RdsXStrTbl0, rdm\_RdsXStrTbl1, rdm\_RdsXStrTbl2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the table is saved in order to give each successive table a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_StrBuffers\* vector** - A polygon feature class containing Stream features from the StrByRU intermediate feature class buffered by the selected buffer distance. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_StrBuffers" followed by a number (e.g. rdm\_StrBuffers0, rdm\_StrBuffers1, rdm\_StrBuffers2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and results saved to the same output location.
* **rdm\_RdsNrStrms\* vector** - A line feature class containing Road features contained within the StrBuffers intermediate feature class. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "rdm\_RdsNrStrms" followed by a number (e.g. RdsNrStrms0, rdm\_RdsNrStrms1, rdm\_RdsNrStrms2, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and results saved to the same output location.

***
_Created with the Personal Edition of HelpNDoc: [Easy CHM and documentation editor](<https://www.helpndoc.com>)_
