# Population Density Metrics

Intermediate Files Retained

* **pdm\_\[Reporting unit feature\]\* vector** - A polygon feature class containing reporting units with a new area field in km². The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "pdm\_" followed by a the name of the Reporting unit feature, then followed by a number (e.g. pdm\_WI\_Counties0, pdm\_HUC120, pdm\_HUC121, etc.). The number is appended when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **pdm\_\[Census feature\]\* vector** - A polygon feature class of all census polygons with fields containing population, polygon area, and population density within the census polygons. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "pdm\_" followed by the name of the Census feature, then followed by a number (e.g. pdm\_AK\_2000\_tracts0, pdm\_census20100, pdm\_census 2010\_10, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **pdm\_intersectOutput\* vector** - A polygon feature class with Census features intersected with reporting units. The name of the intermediate feature class has the prefix "pdm\_intersectOutput" followed by a number (e.g. pdm\_intersectOutput0, pdm\_intersectOutput\_10, pdm\_intersectOutput\_20, etc.). The number suffix is added when the feature class is saved in order to give each successive feature class a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and the results saved to the same output location.
* **pdm\_summaryTable\* table** - A table of the number of intersected Census feature polygons and the sums of the area-weighted population counts within each reporting unit. The name of the intermediate table has the prefix "pdm\_summaryTable" followed by a number (e.g. pdm\_summaryTable0, pdm\_summaryTable\_10, pdm\_summaryTable\_20, etc.). The number suffix is added when the table is saved in order to give each successive table a unique name when the tool is executed more than once and results saved to the same output location.

***
_Created with the Personal Edition of HelpNDoc: [What is a Help Authoring tool?](<https://www.helpauthoringsoftware.com>)_
